# Menus

This page describes how to create menubars and popup (contextual) menus.

Menu's provide a way of organizing and displaying various actions of an application. A menu may be present on the top of the screen, or may be hidden and made visible on pressing a key (such as F2). The Links application for example makes the menu visible on ESCAPE.

## Menu related items and widgets

Menu's contain separators, menuitems, accelerators and menu actions.
Menuitems can the menu;s themselves. They can also be checkboxes. Usually they are labels or action objects, allowing reuse of an action across the application (such as buttons and key bindings).

A form may have only one menu bar set using Form's set_menu_bar method.

    @form.set_menu_bar mb

## Creating a Menu

### Traditional way

The following lines show creation of a menubar object. Then a menu is created giving a title. A menubar will have several menus. Then `MenuItem` objects are created and added to the `Menu` object named `filemenu`. A command block has ebeen associated with each `MenuItem` which will be invoked upon selection. Finally, the filemenu is added to the menu bar.

      mb = RubyCurses::MenuBar.new
      filemenu = RubyCurses::Menu.new "File"
      filemenu.add(item = RubyCurses::MenuItem.new("Open",'O'))
      item.command(@form) {|it, form|  $message.value = "Open called on menu bar"; 
      }

      filemenu.insert_separator 1

      filemenu.add(RubyCurses::MenuItem.new "New",'N')
      filemenu.add(item = RubyCurses::MenuItem.new("Save",'S'))
      item.command() do |it|  
      end

      mb.add filemenu

      mb.toggle_key = FFI::NCurses::KEY_F2
      @form.set_menu_bar  mb
     
In the final two lines, a toggle key has been associated with the menubar. This will take control of the cursor to the menubar and make it visible. The menubar has been set to the form. This sample is from test2.rb in [rbcurse-extra](https://github.com/rkumar/rbcurse-extras/blob/master/examples/test2.rb)

### Block way

One may also create a menubar and it's items in the block way. This sample is taken from [dbdemo.rb](https://github.com/rkumar/rbcurse-core/blob/master/examples/dbdemo.rb)

      mb = menubar do
        keep_visible true
        menu "File" do
          item "Open", "O" do
            accelerator "Ctrl-O"
            command do 
              alert "HA!! you wanted to open a file?"
            end
          end

          separator

          item "Close", "C"

          ... etc ...


### Dynamic generation of menuitems

It is possible in a *limited* way to use the block approach to create a list of menu items at run time. Some menu items
may show filenames, or database names, or column names for the user to select. The column names depend on the table selected and therefore cannot be set upon start of the application.

[dbdemo.rb](https://github.com/rkumar/rbcurse-core/blob/master/examples/dbdemo.rb) uses this facility.

In this example, `item_list` generates a list of menuitems based on the databases in the directory. Upon selection, the program connects to the database, and populates a listbox with the names of tables. Please note that it is not possible to create a secondary list based on this.

      menu "Database" do
        item_list do
          Dir.glob("**/*.{sqlite,db}")
        end
        command do |menuitem, text|
          connect text
          form.by_name["tlist"].list(get_table_names)
        end
      end

The `command` block is shared by all items of the menu generated by `item_list`, and receives the item and text as arguments.

To generate a secondary list, we use a small work-around of using a popup.
In this example, if a database has been selected, then a list of its tables is used to create menuitems. Upon selection of a table, a popup with the column names is created for user selection.

      menu "Tables" do
        item_list do
          if $current_db
            get_table_names
          end
        end
        command do |menuitem, text|
          $current_table = text
      
          create_popup(get_column_names(text), :multiple) { |value| view_data( text, value.join(",") ) }
        end
      end

### Creating a Checkbox MenuItem

In this example, taken from [test2.rb](https://github.com/rkumar/rbcurse-extras/blob/master/examples/test2.rb), a menuitem is created. A previously created label named colorlabel is passed as an argument. The block executed sets the attribute of that label to reverse or normal based on whether the menuitem is checked or not.

      item = RubyCurses::CheckBoxMenuItem.new "Reverse"
      
      item.command(colorlabel){|it, label| att = it.getvalue ? 'reverse' : 'normal'; label.attr(att); label.repaint}

### Accelerator keys

Specifying an Accelerator key prints the key combination after the menu item's label. Such as "C-x" after "Cut". However, this does not actually create a mapping. One has to create this mapping on the form level.


### Mnemonics

Mnemonics refer to a character in the item's text that usually appears underlined and may be used to trigger the action from anywhere on the menu. Since several terminals (TERM settings are unable to show underlines, therefore currently the mnemonic is shown in "reverse")

In this snippet, the text is "Open" and the mnemonic is "O".

          item "Open", "O" do

## Menu events

Menubar and it's widgets do not expose any events. However, `command` is mapped to the `fire` of a menu or menuitem.

          item "Open", "O" do
            accelerator "Ctrl-O"
            command do 
              alert "You wanted to open a file?"
            end
          end

## Other operations

- keep_visible : To save space, the menu bar is hidden by default. This is based on the behaviour of the links browser. To keep it visible, set keep_visible to true.
- add_separator (alias separator) : appends a separator after menuitem
- insert_separator : insert a separator at given index
- enabled : default true. Set to false to disable a menu or menuitem.

## Contextual Menus

### See also:

-
-

